What is cloud
	On-demand available of computer system resources, especially data storage and computing power, w/o directive active management by the user.
Explain IAAS, PAAS, SAAS, FAAS
	IAAS - provides virtualized computing resources over the Internet; abstracts various low-level details of underlying network infrastructure like 
		computing resources, data partitioning, scaling, security, backup, etc.
	PAAS - builds on top of IAAS and provides a computing platform which includes OS, programming-language execution environment, database, and web server.
	SAAS - provides software licensed on a subscription basis, centrally hosted.
	FAAS - a service-hosted remote procedure call that leverages serverless computing to enable deployment of individual functions that run in response to events.
Compare AWS with other providers like GCP, Azure
	More options.
List differnt services you know of AWS
	RDS - Relational Database Service, provides scalable relational database in the cloud.
	EC2 - Elastic Cloud Compute, provides computing resources over the cloud.
	S3 - provides object storage through a web service interface; scalable based on traffic.
	EBS - raw block-level storage that can be attached to EC2 and used by RDS.
	ELB - automatically redirects traffic across multiple targets to reduce server load.
what is VPC
	Virtual Private Cloud - provisions a logically isolated section of the AWS cloud where we can launch AWS resources in a virtual network that WE define.
what are differnt types of clouds available
	Public
	Private
	Hybrid
	Community
what is VPN
	Virtual Private Network
What is Route53
	Highly available and scalable cloud DNS.
Give some linux commands you know and usage
how would you create and configure EC2
explain RDS services by AWS
what is security group
what is auto scaling
what is IAM in AWS
what is cloud watch
what is sonar cloud
Devops with cloud
Explain serverless
Explain Lambda

Vertical scaling - adding more resources/components (CPU/RAM/DISK) to your server.
Horizontal scaling - involves adding ENTIRE physical machines in the pool of existing resources.