What is Java?
	High-level, object-oriented, robust, secure, platform-independent, high performance, multithreaded, and portal programming language.
	Developed by James Gosling in 1991.
	Strongly-typed, compiled language.
Why Java?
	Write once, run anywhere.
What is the JVM? JRE? JDK?
	JVM: an engine that provides runtime environment to drive Java code or applications. It converts bytecode into machine language. JVM is a part of JRE.
	JRE: a container for java components that orchestrates their activities.
	JDK: software development environment used for developing Java apps.
What is a bit? What is a byte? What is a nibble?
What are the naming conventions in java?
What are the primitive datatypes in java?
	boolean (1 bit)
	byte (8 bits)
	char (16 bits)
	short (16 bits)
	int (32 bits)
	long (64 bits)
	float (32 bits)
	double (64 bits).
What is flow control?
What does the keyword "break" do? What does the keyword "continue" do?
What is short circuiting?
What datatypes does a switch case allow?
	byte, short, char, int, String and some wrapper classes.
What is an array?
What method do you call to find the size of an array?
	Array.length
What is a method?
What is a function vs a method?
What is method overloading?
What is var args in java?
	Variable arguments (...); used when you don't know ahead of time how many args will be passed.
What is a class?
What is an object?
What are the four pillars of object oriented programming?
What is a constructor?
What does the keyword "new" do in java?
Can you name 3 types of constructors?
Is the default constructor and the no args constructor the same thing?
What is the first implicit line of any constructor?
What is the difference between "super" and "this"?
What is the difference between initializing and instantiating?
What are the scopes of a variable in java?
What are the access modifiers in java?
What is shadowing?
	Overriding a variable accessible within overlapping scopes.
What is the difference between overloading and overriding?
What is runtime polymorphism? What is compile time polymorphism?
What is type casting?
What is the difference between up and down casting?
What is a wrapper class?
	A class that automatically wraps a primitive into an Object type.
What is autoboxing? What is unboxing?
What is a String?
What is the difference betwen String, StringBuilder, and StringBuffer?

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Object - an entity with some state and behavior, created using "new"
Heap - runtime data where memory is allocated to objects.
Stack - variables, method invocation and return. Holds frames, these frames destroyed when method invocation completes.
Just-in-Time Compiler (JIT) - improves performance. Compiles parts of bytecode w/ similar functionality at same time, reducing amount of time needed for compilation.
"WORA" - Write once run anywhere; Java is portable and platform-independent.
Classloader - subsystem of JVM used to load class files.
Access Modifiers
	public - accessible by any class or method
	protected - accessible by class of same package, or subclasses
	default (package private) - accessible within package only
	private - accessible within class only
Static variables or methods - they're shared among all objects of the same class, bc they're a part of the class and not of the object
	No need to create the object to access variables or methods
Advantages of packages - avoid name clashes, easy access control, provides structure to app
Constructor - special method used to initialize an object upon its creation. Invoked when a class is instantiated and memory is allocated for the object.
	Name of constructor must be same as class name.
	Must not have a return type.
	Cannot be final.
	Default constructor - doesn't accept any value, called implicitly by compiler if no constructors are defined
	Parameterizes constructor - accepts arguments to instantiate an object
Thread Lifecycle
	New
		> start()
	Runnable
		> run() or stop()
	Running
	Terminated

	New threads can be "blocked" when one is currently running.
	wait() can be called on new threads to block them (Non Runnable).