What is Spring? 
	A complete end-to-end ecosystem of modules for developing enterprise-level applications.
What are some features of Spring?
Modules of Spring
What is the Bean Configuration File?
What is the root tag of the Beans.xml file? How would you add a bean in the file?
What are the 2 distinct types of containers that Spring provides?
What is Spring Bean?
What are the five scopes that a Spring Bean can have?
What is the default scope of a Spring bean if a scope is not definied?
What is the life cycle of a Spring Bean
What is an IoC?
what are the different IOC conatiners available in Spring? Differentiate between them.
What is dependency injection?
What are the different types of dependency injection, and which does Spring support?
When would you use the different types of injection?
What is autowiring?
What are the different autowiring modes that you can specify?
What are Spring annotations?
How do you register a class to a spring bean, using annotations?
How do you activate annotation-based autowiring in Spring?
What is the @Inject annotation?
What is @Bean?
How can you inject any collection as a bean property?
What are cross-cutting concerns?
What is code tangling and code scattering?
What is AOP?
What is an Aspect?
What do you mean by Advice?
What are the types of Advice?
What is a join point in Spring AOP?
What is a Pointcut in regards to Spring AOP?
What is the difference between joinpoint and pointcut?
What is AspectJ?
What is Spring ORM?
What 3 beans do you need  to set up Hibernate with Spring ORM? Why are they necessary?
What does @Transactional do in Spring ORM?
Explain different annotations used in Spring AOP
What is Spring MVC?
Design pattern used in Spring MVC architecture?
Describe how Spring MVC implements the Model-View-Controller design pattern.
What do you need to do in order to configure the dispatcher servleet manually for Spring MVC?
How do you turn ON annotations support in Spring MVC?
Howw do you tell Spring that a class is a controller?
What does the @RequestMapping annotations do and what attributes can you define for it?
What are other annotations that can be used inside of a controller?
What does DefaultAnnotationHandlerMapping do in Spring MVC?
What does the InternalResourceViewResolver do and what are some of its properties?
What is the ContextLoadListener in SpringMVC?
What is the @RestController annotation?
@Controller Vs @RestController
What is Spring Boot?
What does adding the 'spring-boot-starter-parent' to your POM do for you?
What are some of the advantages of using Spring Boot over the basic Spring core?
What is the @SpringBootApplication?
Is it possible to add any confiugration to Spring Boot?
What type of information do we commonly add to the application.properties file?
What is Spring Data?
Advantages of Spring Data?
What interface can you extend through your repository interfaces to provide standard CRUD operations?
MVC1 Vs MVC2
Different ways of getting data in the spring controller
explain the flow of Spring web MVC
What is contextual session?
Explain Spring boot starter project
what is actuator
Spring Boot Vs Spring
explain web dev tools in spring boot
explain all stereo type annotations
explain few JSR-303 annotations
How would you handle exceptons in Spring Web MVC?
CRUDRepository Vs JPARepository