What is a database?
    Stored collection of data.
What is DBMS?
    Database Management System; software packaged to define, manipulate, retrieve, and manage data in a database.
What is RDBMS?
    Relational Database Management System; subset of DBMS, stores data in a structured format using columns and rows.
What is SQL?
    Structured Query Language; language designed to communicate with databases.
*DDL: Data Definition Language (Structure)
    Create/Drop/Alter/Rename/Modify/Truncate
*DML: Data Manipulation Language (Records)
    Insert/Update/Delete
*DQL: Data Query Language (Reads)
    Select
DCL: Data Control Language (Manage Users)
    Grant(give access permissions)/Revoke(remove access)
TCL: Transaction Control Language (Transactions)
    Commit/Rollback/SavePoint
What is a query?
    A request for data or information from a database.
What are the properties of transactions?
    Any change made to a database.
    Properties: ACID; Atomicity, Consistency, Isolation, Durability.
What is a key?
    A field used to sort data; can also create relationships.
What is a candidate key?
    Column (or set of columns) that uniquely identifies a DB record w/o referring to ANY other data.
What is a primary key?
    A column (or set of columns) that uniquely identifies a record.
What is a composite key?
    A key composed of more than one attribute.
What is a foreign key?
    A PK of one table that's placed in another table to create a common attribute.
What is multiplicity?
    Max number of entity occurrences integrated with one occurrence of a related activity.
    How many instances of one object are related to instances of another object.
What is referential integrity?
    Condition in which every reference to an entity instance by another entity instace is valid.
    If something in one table is "correctly" pointing to something else in another table.
    Foreign keys used to ensure referential integrity.
    Foreign keys must always reference a valid primary key
What is a cascade delete?
    If a record from the parent table is deleted, the corresponding records in child table will automatically be deleted.
What is LIKE keyword?
    Used in WHERE clause to specify a pattern in a column.
What is GROUP BY?
    Groups rows that have the same values into "summary rows".
What is ORDER BY?
    Sort the result set in ascending or descending order.
What is the WHERE clause?
    Filters records.
What is the HAVING clause?
    Used when WHERE clause couldn't be used with aggregate functions.
What is an aggregate function?
    COUNT, AVG, SUM, MAX, MIN, etc.
What is a scalar function?
    User-defined function that returns a single value each time it's invoked.
What are constraints?
    Specify rules for data in a table.
    PRIMARY KEY, FOREIGN KEY, UNIQUE, NOT NULL, etc.
What is a view?
    The result set of a stored procedure on the data.
What is set operations?
    Allow results of multiple queries to be combined into a single result set.
    UNION, INTERSECT, EXCEPT, etc.
What are joins?
    Clause used to combine rows from two or more tables.
How are joins different to set operations?
What is normalization?
1st NF - no repeating groups and PK identified.
2nd NF - 1st NF w/o partial dependencies.
3rd NF - 2nd NF w/o transitive dependencies.
What is PL/SQL?
    Procedural language SQL;
What is a sequence?
What is a stored procedure?
    Procedure on the DB that doesn't return a value.
Function vs Stored procedure
    Functions returns values; procedures don't.
What is a cursor?
    Control structure that enables traversal over records in a DB
How do you add a record to a table?
How do you add column to a table
How would you use IN and EXIST?
DROP?
DELETE?
TRUNCATE?
How to prevent SQL injections?
    Create stored procedures, accessed only in the database.
CRUD operations
What is ACID?
    Guarantees transactions are processed reliably.
    Atomicity - transaction must be completed with all its data modifications, or none is performed at all.
    Consistency - at the end of the transaction, all data must be left in a consistent state.
    Isolation - modifications performed are independent of another.
    Durability - when transaction is completed, effects must be permanent in the system.