What is a database?
is an organized collection of data.

A database management system (DBMS) is system software for creating and managing databases. A DBMS makes it possible for end users to create, read, update and delete data in a database.

What is RDBMS?
RDBMS. Stands for "Relational Database Management System." An RDBMS is a DBMS designed specifically for relational databases. A relational database refers to a database that stores data in a structured format, using rows and columns.

What is SQL?
SQL is the main language that allows your database servers to store and edit the data on it.In database systems, SQL statements are used to generate queries from a client program to the database. 

What is DML?
DML component consists of SQL commands to manipulate data stored into database objects. Examples of DML commands include Select,Insert,Update and Delete commands.

What is DDL?
Stands for Data Definition Language." A DDL is a language used to define data structures and modify data. For example, DDL commands can be used to add, remove, or modify tables within in a database. DDLs used in database applications are considered a subset of SQL, the Structured Query Language.

What is DQL?
Documentum Query Language (DQL) is a language to query Documentum content management system. This, we use to create, manage, deliver, and archive all type of contents from text documents and spreadsheets to digital images, HTML, and XML components. 

What is TCL?
TCL stands for Transaction Control Language. This command is used to manage the changes made by DML statements. TCL allows the statements to be grouped together into logical transactions.

What is a query?
A query is a request for data or information from a database table or combination of tables. This data may be generated as results returned by Structured Query Language (SQL) 

What are the properties of transactions?
ACID properties of transactions. In the context of transaction processing, the acronym ACID refers to the four key properties of a transaction: atomicity, consistency, isolation, and durability. All changes to data are performed as if they are a single operation.

What is a key?
A key is a single or combination of multiple fields in a table. It is used to fetch or retrieve records/data-rows from data table according to the condition/requirement. Keys are also used to create a relationship among different database tables or views.What is a 

candidate key?
A Candidate Key can be any column or a combination of columns that can qualify as unique key in database. There can be multiple Candidate Keys in one table.

What is a primary key?
primary key is either an existing table column or a column that is specifically generated by the database according to a defined sequence.

What is a composite key?
A primary key having two or more attributes is called composite key.

What is a foreign key?
A foreign key is a column or group of columns in a relational database table that provides a link between data in two tables.

What is multiplicity?
The Multiplicity attribute of a relationship specifies the cardinality or number of instances of an EntityType that can be associated with the instances of another EntityType..There are four types of multiplicities: one-to- one, one-to-many, many-to-one, and many-to-many.

What is referential integrity?
Referential integrity would prevent you from adding a record to Table B that cannot be linked to Table A.

What is a cascade delete?
A foreign key with cascade delete means that if a record in the parent table is deleted, then the corresponding records in the child table will automatically be deleted. This is called a cascade delete in SQL Server.

What is Like keyword?
The LIKE operator is used in a WHERE clause to search for a specified pattern in a column.

What is GROUP BY?
The GROUP BY Statement in SQL is used to arrange identical data into groups with the help of some functions. i.e if a particular column has same values in different rows then it will arrange these rows in a group.

What is ORDER BY?
The SQL ORDER BY clause is used to sort the data in ascending or descending order, based on one or more columns.

What is the WHERE clause?
A WHERE clause in SQL specifies that a SQL Data Manipulation Language (DML) statement should only affect rows that meet specified criteria. ... In brief SQL WHERE clause is used to extract only those results from a SQL statement, such as: SELECT, INSERT, UPDATE, or DELETE statement.

What is the HAVING clause?
A HAVING clause in SQL specifies that an SQL SELECT statement should only return rows where aggregate values meet the specified conditions.

What is an aggregate function?
An aggregate function performs a calculation on a set of values, and returns a single value. Except for COUNT , aggregate functions ignore null values. Aggregate functions are often used with the GROUP BY clause of the SELECT statement. All aggregate functions are deterministic.

What is a scalar function?
An SQL scalar function is a user-defined function written in SQL and it returns a single value each time it is invoked. ... An inlined SQL scalar function has a body with a single RETURN statement. The RETURN statement can return either a NULL value or a simple expression that does not reference a scalar fullselect.

What are constraints?
SQL Constraints are rules used to limit the type of data that can go into a table, to maintain the accuracy and integrity of the data inside table.

What is a view?
A view is actually a composition of a table in the form of a predefined SQL query. ... Views are used for security purpose in databases,views restricts the user from viewing certain column and rows means by using view we can apply the restriction on accessing the particular rows and columns for specific user.

What is set operations?
Set operators are used to join the results of two (or more) SELECT statements.

What are joins?
The SQL Joins clause is used to combine records from two or more tables in a database. A JOIN is a means for combining fields from two tables by using values common to each.

How are joins different to set operations?
 Set Operations and Joins Introduction Set operations like union , intersect and except are used on 2 tables with same fields. Where as join is performed for denormalizing 2 tables into one on a common column.

What is normalisation?
Normalization is a systematic approach of decomposing tables to eliminate data redundancy(repetition) and undesirable characteristics like Insertion, Update and Deletion Anomalies. It is a multi-step process that puts data into tabular form, removing duplicated data from the relation tables.

1st NF
First normal form is a property of a relation in a relational database. A relation is in first normal form if and only if the domain of each attribute contains only atomic values, and the value of each attribute contains only a single value from that domain.

2nd NF
The table is in 1st normal form, and. All the non-key columns are dependent on the table's primary key.

3rd NF
A relation is in third normal form if it is in 2NF and no non key attribute is transitively dependent on the primary key. 

What is PL/SQL?
SQL is a structured query language used for data manipulation, whereas PL/SQL is a procedural language to design applications. PL/SQL is an application language usually used to build, format and display the user screens, web pages and reports, while SQL provides data for these applications.

What is a sequence?
a sequence is a user-defined schema-bound object that generates a sequence of numbers according to a specified specification. A sequence of numeric values can be in ascending or descending order at a defined interval and may cycle if requested.

What is a stored procedure?
A stored procedure in SQL is a type of code in SQL that can be stored for later use and can be used many times. So, whenever you need to execute the query, instead of calling it you can just call the stored procedure. Values can be passed through stored procedures.

Function vs Stored procedure
The function must return a value but in Stored Procedure it is optional. Even a procedure can return zero or n values. Functions can have only input parameters for it whereas Procedures can have input or output parameters.

What is a cursor?
The major function of a cursor is to retrieve data, one row at a time, from a result set, unlike the SQL commands which operate on all the rows in the result set at one time. Cursors are used when the user needs to update records in a singleton fashion or in a row by row manner, in a database table.

How do you add a record to a table?
insert into employee
  (first, last, age, address, city, state)
  values ('Luke', 'Duke', 45, '2130 Boars Nest', 
          'Hazard Co', 'Georgia');

list of values enclosed in parenthesis.
SELECT
SUBSTRING(FirstName,1,1) AS '',
'.' AS'',
LastName AS '', CONCAT('(',UPPER(Title),')') AS '' 
FROM employees
WHERE (Title !='Sales Representative');

How do you add column to a table
ALTER TABLE table_name
ADD column_name datatype;

How would you use IN and EXIST?
SELECT column_name(s)
FROM table_name
WHERE column_name IN (value1, value2, ...);


SELECT column_name(s)
FROM table_name
WHERE EXISTS
(SELECT column_name FROM table_name WHERE condition);

DROP?
DROP TABLE table_name;

DELETE?
DELETE FROM table_name WHERE condition;

TRUNCATE?
TRUNCATE TABLE Categories;

How to prevent SQL injections?
An SQL injection is a technique that attackers apply to insert SQL query into input fields to then be processed by the underlying SQL database. These weaknesses are then able to be abused when entry forms allow user-generated SQL statements to query the database directly.
Input validation, Parametrized queries, Stored procedures, Escaping, Avoiding administrative privileges, Web application firewall.

CRUD operations
the acronym CRUD stands for create, read, update and delete.

What is ACID?
(an acronym for Atomicity, Consistency Isolation, Durability) is a concept that Database Professionals generally look for when evaluating databases and application architectures.