What is Angular?
	TypeScript-based open-source web application framework managed by Google.
Difference between AngularJS and Angular?
	AngularJS was 1.0 based on JavaScript; Angular is based on TypeScript.
Technologies that you should include for your environment to create an Angular application?
	???
What is Angular CLI?
	A CLI used to initialize, develop, and maintain Angular applications.
	Can be used directly in a command shell.
How to create a new Angular project using Angular CLI?
	ng new - creates an Angular app
	ng generate - generates components, routes, services, and pipes (CLI also creates test shells for all these)
	ng serve - easily test app locally while developing (like LiveServer)
(Folder structure) What is e2e?
	Top-level folder that contains source files for the end-to-end tests for the root-level application.
	Also contains test-specific config files.
(Folder structure) What is node_modules?
	Contains build tools and libraries that're installed by npm.
	Provides npm packages to the entire workspace.
	Workspace-wide node_modules dependencies are visible to ALL projects.
(Folder structure) What is src?
	Source files for the root-level application project.
Where is the app folder located? What files does it contain (if created by Angular CLI)
	/src/app
	Contains component files in which our app logic and data are defined.
What is a decorator?
	A design pattern used to separate modification (decorations) of a class without modifying original source code.
	They're functions that allow a service, directive, or filter to be modified prior to its usage.
	Reference: https://angular.io/api?type=decorator
What is a module?
	A container for different parts of our app--controllers, services, filters, directives, etc.
What is @NgModule? What are some of the attributes inside of the @NgModule decorator?
What is a component?
	Controls a patch of screen valled a "view".
	Define a component's logic inside a class.
What is @Component? Attributes inside of the @Component decorator?
	The root component of the app.
	Attributes:
		selector - used to select this component
		templateUrl - specifies where the template (HTML) file is located
		stylesUrl - specifies where the style (CSS) file is located
How to add new component inside of Angular, using Angular CLI?
	ng generate component <component-name>
How to create a component, without Angular CLI?
	Manually create a x.component.ts file?
How to inculde a component on another component's HTML template page?
	Register it in @NgModule declarations property.
What is a directive?
	Something that changes a template (HTML).
What are the different kind of directives provided by Angular?
	Components
		Directives with a template (HTML).
	Structural directives
		Changes the structure of the view by adding and removing DOM elements.
	Attribute directives
		Changes appearance or behavior of a DOM element.
What is *ngIf and how does it work?
	A structural directive that CONDITIONALLY includes an element based on the evaluation of a BOOLEAN EXPRESSION.
	If the expression is true, Ang renders the element provided in a "then" clause.
	If false or null, Ang renders the element in an optional "else" clause.
		Default element for the "else" clause is blank.
What is *ngFor and how does it work?
	A structural directive that renders an element for each item in a collection.
	The directive is PLACED ON AN ELEMENT, which becomes the parent of future cloned elements.
What is data binding? What are the different data binding options?
	Allows to define communication bt a component and the DOM.
	Makes it easy to define interactive apps without worrying about pushing and pulling data.
	Four data binds:
		FROM THE COMPONENT TO THE DOM:
			1. Interpolation: {{value}}
				Adds a value of a PROPERTY FROM THE COMPONENT.
				Example:
					<li>Name: {{ user.name }}</li>
					<li>Email: {{ user.email }}</li>
			2. Property binding: [property]="value"
				With this, the value is passed FROM THE COMPONENT TO THE SPECIFIED PROPERTY, which is often a simple HTML attribute.
				Example:
					<input type="email" [value]="user.email">
		FROM THE DOM TO THE COMPONENT
			3. Event binding: (event)="function"
				When a specific DOM event occurs, CALL THE SPECIFIED METHOD IN THE COMPONENT.
				Example:
					<button (click)="cookBacon()"></button>
					cookBacon() from the component is called when the button is clicked.
		TWO WAY
			4. Two-way data binding: [(ngModule)]="value"
				Using the "banana in a box" syntax; allows bi-directional data flow.
				Example:
					<input type="email" [(ngModel)]="user.email">
					user.email data property is used as the value for the input, but if the user changes the value, the component property gets updated automatically!

Can we create custom pipes in Angular?
	Yes, first ng generate pipe <pipe-name>
	Then, register it as a DECLARATION in our app module.
	Finally, use the pipe with the "|" symbol.
What are filters in Angular
	Angular 1.x method to format data.
What is a pipe? What are some pipes that come with Angular?
	Angular 2.x method to format data.
	A way to TRANSFORM and FORMAT data right from the HTML page.
	Common pipes:
		uppercase
		lowercase
		titlecase - capitalizes first letter of each word and transforms the rest to lowercase
What is a SPA?
	Single Page Applications
	A web app that interacts with the web browser by dynamically rewriting the current page instead of loading entire new pages.
What is routing? Why does Angular implement its own routingmodule?
	Allows user in-app navigation.
	Using a router, we can specify application states, manage state transitions while tending to the URL, and load bundles on demand.
What are Angular services? What is an advantage of using sevices?
	Singleton objects that get instantiated only once during the lifespan of an app.
	Main objective is to organize and share business logic, models, or data and functions with other components.
What is a Dependency Injection (DI)?
	An important application design pattern which increases efficiency and modularity.
	Dependencies are services/objects that a class needs in order to perform its functions.
	DI is a coding pattern in which a class asks for DEPENDENCIES FROM EXTERNAL SOURCES rather than creating them itself.
How would you add a new service to your project using Angular CLI?
	ng generate service <service-name>
How would you add a new service to your project, without using Angular CLI?
	Create a x.services.ts file and register it in @NgModule.
How do you perform HTTP requests in Angular?
	Importing HttpClientModule from @angular/common/http and registering it inside the import property of @NgModule
Does the HttpClient object create synchronized requests?
	???
What is a Promise?
	A future-like object that's used as a placeholder for a result of an asynchronous API.
What is an Observable? What do you need to do to use it inside of an Angular project?
	Any object whose satte may be of interest, and in whom another object may register an interest.
Difference between Promises and Observable
	A promise is ALWAYS ASYNCHRONOUS, whereas an observable can be either SYNCHRONOUS OR ASYNCHRONOUS.
What is the lifecycle of a component?
	Component lifecycle starts when Ang instantiates the component class and renders the component view.
	The lifecycle continues with change-detection, as Ang checks to see when data-bound properties change, and updates both the view and component instance as needed.
	The lifecycle ends when Ang destroys the component instance and removes its rendered template from the DOM.
What are the lifecycle hooks for a component?
	Our app can use lifecycle hook methods to take into key events in the lifecycle of a component.
	Lifecycle hook methods:
		ngOnChanges()
		ngOnInit()
		ngDoCheck()
		ngAfterContentInit()
		ngAfterContentChecked()
		ngAfterViewInit()
		ngAfterViewChecked()
		ngOnDestroy()
What is the ngOninit() function?
	Called once, after the first ngOnChanges()
	Initializes the directive or component after Ang first displays the data-bound properties and sets the directive or component's input properties.
Explain types of directives
	Components - Directives with a template (HTML).
	Structural directives - Changes the structure of the view by adding and removing DOM elements.
	Attribute directives - Changes appearance or behavior of a DOM element.
how forms are handled in angular, explain both types of forms
	Template-driven forms - useful for adding a simple form.
		Doesn't scale as well as reactive forms.
	Reactive forms - more robust, scalable, reusable, and testable.
how would you convert typescript class to angular's component
	???