Explain JEE architecture
	JEE is built on top of JSE.
	Provides an API and runtime environment for developing and running large-scale, 
		multi-tiered, scalable, reliable, and secure network applications.
define servlet
	Java programs that run on the web server.
	Handles requests obtained from the web server, processes the request, produces a response, and sends the response back to web server.
explain life cycle of the servlet
	Entire process from creation until destruction:
		init() - servlet initialized
		service() - called to process a client's request
		destroy() - called to terminate the servlet
		Servlet is then collected by the garbage collector of the JVM
explain servlet hierarchy
	Servlet (I) > GenericServlet (C) > UserDefinedServlets
explain why http is called as stateless protocol
	No session info is retained by the server (receiver).	
what are the different ways you make http stateless to stateful using servlets
	Cookies - a piece of info persisted between multiple client requests
	Hidden Form Field - an invisible textfield; get it from another servlet
	URL Rewriting - append a token (identifier) to URL of the next servlet/resource; from the servlet/resource, use getParameter() to obtain the parameter
	HttpSession - servlet creates a session id for each user
what are the different types of servlets available. differentiate between them
	Generic Servlets - protocol independent; contain no inherent HTTP support or any other transport protocol
	HTTP Servlets - have built-in HTTP protocol support; doGet() and doPost() are used to handle client requests (GET or POST requests)
explain Front Controller design pattern
	Provides a centralized request-handling mechanism so all requests is handled by a single handler.
		Handler can authenticate/authorize/log/track all requests and then pass them to corresponding handlers.
		Entities:
			Front Controller - single handler for all requests coming to the application
			Dispatcher - object which forwards the requests to corresponding specific handler
			View - object for which the requests are made
what are the different scopes available in servlets
	Request Scope - most useful when processing requests of a submitted form; guarantees that no other request will affect your obj while a request is being handled.
		Lifespan: shortest; lives until a request is successfully processed.
	Session Scope - associated with a user; when user visits we app, a session is created by a servlet.
		Lifespan: lives as long as a user interacts with our app or until session.invalidate() is called.
	Application Scope - global scope associataed with our web app.
		Lifespan: as long as the web app is deployed.
explain web container
	aka "servlet container"; a component of a web server that interacts with Java servlets.
	Responsible for managing servlet's lifecycle, mapping a URL to a particular servlet, and ensuring that the URL request has correct access-rights.
web server vs application server
	Web server serves static pages (HTML/CSS)
	Application server generates dynamic content by executing server-side code (JSP, Servlet, EJB)
http status codes
	1xx - informational
	2xx - success
	3xx - redirection
	4xx - client errors
	5xx - server errors
what is RequestDispatcher?
	An interface that provides the facility of dispatching requests to another resource (HTML/Servlet/JSP).		
include vs forward vs sendredirect
	public void forward(request, response)
		Forwards a request from a servlet to another resource on the server (servlet/JSP/HTML)
	public void include(request, response)
		Includes the content of a resource (servlet/JSP/HTML) in the response.
	sendRedirect()
		HttpServletResponse (I) method; used to redirect response to another resource (servlet/JSP/HTML).
explain the need of deployment descriptor (DD)
	It's a config file for an artifact that's deployed to some container.
	Describes hHOW a component, module, or application should be deployed.
give servlet tags and also annotations
	@WebServlet - annotation used to declare a servlet inside a Java file
	Can also use a web.xml file with tags:
		<servlet>, <servlet-mapping>, <context-param>, <display-name>, etc..
what is filter
	A component that dynamically intercepts requests and responses.
	Typically not created themselves, but instead "attached" to a servlet/JSP page.
	Provides the ability to encapsulate recurring tasks into reusable units.
talk about apache tomcat and compare it with other JEE containers
	It's an application server that act as a container for servlets.
	Designed to execute Java servlets and render pages that use JSP (Java Server Pages).
explain client server model
	Distributed application structure that splits tasks between service providers (servers) and service requestors (clients).